So we talked about scoped,
what about CSS modules?
You might not have heard a lot about it,
but, and this is a feature that's
not talked a lot about, but what you
can do is you can actually go ahead and
tell your module, or your CSS
styles to take on the module mode.
Now, what this will do though is a little
bit tricky though on the other hand, so
let me show you what's happening.
So, right now we'll notice that nothing's
happening to the button right now because,
CSS modules works really well in view or
honestly I think in JavaScript scenarios
when there's an actual
class associated with it.
So just to switch this up to
show that it's equivalent,
let me start by reverting this real quick.
So we use a class of button rather
than just a generic button selector.
And we'll show that this, on the see on
the button count, or the base counter,
let's make sure everything is equivalent.
So all the buttons here, one, two,
three, are gonna get a class of button.
So there we go, there's that red
showing up as we would expect.
And under user card,
we got a class of button.
All right, so now everything is equal,
we're talking about CSS classes here now.
Okay, when we add the module here, what
this is going to do is this is going to
allow us to do something that might
seem a little weird at first,
but trust me on this one.
What we're gonna do is we're going
to v bind our class attribute.
And so I'm going to do the shorthand now.
And rather than just bind it to button
directly, because right now it'd be like,
what I mean button,
there's no variable called button.
We're going to do $style.button.
That's what we're going to do.
And so what you'll notice here actually I
realised I only update it in one place.
We didn't update it in all three,
so one, two three, just like that.
Okay?
So you might first think, That looks kind
of ugly, I don't like the JavaScript.
But, let me show you what's actually
happening underneath the hood.
If you take a look here, what you'll
notice is that the class has actually
now been recompiled to actually
have a unique hash at the end.
And this is improve,
this is really powerful because what you
end up getting is the ability to actually
truly scope your styles to the basically
that particular component.
Cuz the odds of this getting overridden
by something else, randomly is very,
very low.
And if you want it to be,
even more like specific,
there are actually ways to configure
your compiler to actually,
basically spit out a specific pattern of
how you want the modules to be spit out.
So in this case for
example like you'll notice it tells you
that the class of button is being used.
Right?
So that we can at least search for
a class button and then after that of
course this is a randomly generated hash.
At the bare minimum this is to me the
minimum that, the minimum size of dx that
I think I recommend when it comes
to CSS modules across frameworks,
is because I noticed that some CSS modules
will actually just hash the entire class.
And you could argue, that's super unique.
But I'd also argue that
it's super hard to debug.
In fact, that's like, almost near
difficult impossible to debug because
you're, now I have to figure out
the HTML where that happens to apply.
And so what I typically recommend when it
comes to CSS modules is to also go ahead
and prefix the component name to it.
Now granted,
if your component names are super long,
then there might end up
being a performance issue.
But that way you know exactly which
component file to drop into and
where the CSS classes,
but this is a really great way to
protect your CSS for components.
Now, once again I know that not everyone
is in love with this style syntax.
So what I tell people is this, remember
that when you're using stuff in view you
can do stuff where it makes sense.
Just because you want to use CSS modules
doesn't mean you have to CSS modularize
your entire code base, you can just do
it in the places where it makes sense.
And that way you don't feel like
you have the one, do it for
across the entire code base.
But two, you can be selective about
the techniques that you use, because,
as we saw earlier scripts works really
well when it's written well, but
then otherwise in times you
need to be very protective.
Go ahead and try out CSS modules on it.
And again, this is something that's
just built right into the library, so
the moment you want to use it,
it's there for you.
We won't show you this at this point,
because this will be like additional
configuration, but just know that for
these blocks as well,
a lot of us also use pre-processors
when it comes to using our styles.
And so you should know, is that you
can actually add attributes on here,
like Lang CSS, for example and
you'll need to actually configure your
builder to actually make sure
it has like the sass loader.
But once you do that,
you can write your sass files in here,
just like you normally would use all
your sass syntax as you would expect.
Question?
>> Is their way to to avoid
the class bind style button?
Is there a way to use sass and bind to,
the parent element In the component and
then your sass?
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
So, the question is around trying to
instead of using the style to use sass to
check out what the class is of the parent,
and use that to generate the CSS the wrap
and that's everything I've never
actually done that particular approach.
I would imagine that if
you were to approach it,
it might be kind of hard to do, so
I don't have I'll say that it sounds
possible but it might be tricky to do